# SIRTAH
## Singing Reinforcement Training Applying Haptics
The code presented in this repository is for use in a project where a singer's fundamental frequency is tracked using a version of the YIN algorithm and provided vibrotactile feedback.

## About The Code
* 'code.py' is the necessary file name and primary file that the microcontroller needs to run the program. It calls on 'pitch', which is the YIN algorithm that has been incorporated into a modified version of the [Pimoroni Pico Lipo 16MB CircuitPython .uf2](https://circuitpython.org/board/pimoroni_picolipo_16mb/) file; where YIN (written in C; as a module) is wrapped in with the CircuitPython build and boot loaded onto the microcontroller. 

* 'audioprocessing.py' manages the moving average, microphone levels, and removal of DC bias to make the signal cleaner. 

* 'noteprocessing.py' contains the array of note frequencies, the intervals between notes, a logarithmic interpolation scaler for the PWM signal and functions that acquire index, target frequency and difference in frequency value information.

## Equipment
### Microphone
A pulse-density modulation (PDM) microelectromechanical system (MEMS) microphone is used to pick up the signal generated by the singer's voice.

### Microcontroller
A Pimoroni Pico Lipo 16MB is a microcontroller that is an alternative version of the Raspberry Pi Pico. It uses the same RP2040 chip and pinouts, but the Pimoroni Pico Lipo includes a power button, USB-C port and lithium polymer battery powered and charging capabilities, making it even more ideal to operate as a standalone device. The Pimoroni Pico Lipo runs the YIN algorithm, taking in the data from the PDM MEMS microphone and outputing a pulse width modulated (PWM) signal.

### Haptic Motor
A coin vibration motor receives the PWM signal and generates a vibration dependent on the distance value from the sung frequency to the frequency of a note in western music notation. The further the singer is from any note, the more intense the vibration. If the singer is singing on pitch (withing a small range allowance) the vibration should cease or be nearly unnoticeable.

## Additional Information

### AUTHORS
[Mike Hedges](https://github.com/M1K3Hedges/)
<br>
[Sophus Olsen](https://github.com/sbo-mm/)

### ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
YIN algorithm ([Alain de Cheveigné & Hideki Kawahara](https://asa.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1121/1.1458024)) extracted from [Ashok Fernandez](https://github.com/ashokfernandez/) who extracted from [JorenSix](https://github.com/JorenSix/).
